You may have noticed that if the default selection is set to the right mouse button that when you click
the left mouse button it moves this little round red thingy around.
And honestly that can be pretty annoying.
But actually this is a pretty useful thing.
This is called the 3D cursor and you can use it to scale and rotate and move things in very detailed
ways.
And we'll be talking about this more as we go on.
But to get the cursor back to the center of the grid you can press shift s and choose cursor to center
and that will bring the cursor back to the center of the grid and that's usually where I like to have
it but keep in mind you can't get rid of the 3-D cursor you can only move it around.
So for me it is less distracting to have it in the center of the grid.
Let's talk a bit about manipulating and editing objects like this cube here.
I'm going to use the middle mouse button scroll wheel to scroll in.
And as you can see since it's selected I've got this move manipulator tool already visible.
You can turn the manipulator tool on and off by this little button down here.
You've also got other manipulators down here the rotate manipulator and the scale.
And of course if you choose the move you can click on one of these arrows and drag it up and down or
left and right.
The red green and blue coincide to the three axes of the 3D view here the x axis is the red the Y is
the green and the blue is the Z.
You can see it down here.
You can see the same three colors for the axes if you click on the rotate tool or the scale tool.
So in the with the scale tool I can scale it in the Y or in the Z.
Same with the rotate tool I could rotate this around the y axis like that.
Now it can be kind of a pain to have to come down here each time and click the manipulator tool if you
want to use one of these manipulators Blendr also has some shortcut keys to transform the objects without
using the manipulators.
So if I press the G key for grab and just move the mouse I can move the object around.
And then once I get it where I want it to be I can then confirm the transformation by clicking the left
mouse button.
I can also do that with the R key and rotate or the key and scale.
Now if I wanted to cancel the scale operation I could right click the mouse and that would cancel that
transformation if I wanted to move this object in a particular access say in the z axis.
I could just hit the G key and then the Z key and notice it gives me this blue line down the z axis.
Now when I move the mouse it will only move in the z axis.
Same with the rotate tool and the scale tool you can type in an axis in which you want to transform
the object.
In addition for the rotate tool you can also type in the degrees in which you would like to turn the
objects so let's say I wanted to rotate this object 90 degrees around the x axis.
I could press R and then the x key and then 9 0 and it would rotate 90 degrees around the x axis.
Now I've got this object all kind of twisted and turned and scaled.
Now if I press the end key to come over here to the properties panel must scroll up here you can see
all of the values here in the location fields the rotation and the scale.
These reflect all the movements we've done with the object here.
But what I can do is I can change the scale say back to 1 it's default and all I've done there is just
drag click and drag all the fields and then typed in one and hit enter.
And then I can take the rotation back to its default by clicking and dragging all of these and typing
in zero and hit enter.
And then I can also move it back to its center position by typing in zero in these fields as well.
So of course instead of moving it directly within the 3D view we can come over here to the properties
panel and say rotate this around the Y 45 degrees and type it directly into these transform fields.
All right.
Let's take that back to zero and I'm going to press the N key again to close the properties panel there.
Now just as an aside I personally like to use the transform manipulators a lot.
And currently the main way to get to these is to come down here and click on them.
I like using keyboard shortcuts.
So what I've done is I've created keyboard shortcuts to allow me to change between the move tool the
rotate and the scale and my particular shortcut keys that I've created here are control alt and the
arrow keys left down and right.
So the way to do that let me just show you how to do that if you want to create your own shortcut keys
for the manipulator tool.
I've got to do is go to File user preferences.
And under the input section you can go to 3D view 3D view global in a way down here at the bottom you
can see I've got these enable 3D manipulator entries.
I mean just roll them up here with the arrows.
So these are three that I've created.
So what you can do is you can click on Add new and it will create a new empty entry here for you.
I'm going to just roll this one down and once you do that you can enter this view 3D dot enable underscore
manipulator and then you can select the keys that you want to use for this particular entry.
Notice I've got translate selected here and for this other one I've got I've got rotate selected and
for this one down here I've got scale.
So for me I've used control alt left arrow for the translate control alt down arrow for the rotate and
control alt right arrow for the scale.
So that allows me to jump from one to the other very quickly without having to come down here and click
on the buttons every single time.